Exercise 8.2

Questions:

1. What does the Pearson correlation coefficient measure? Identify one example value from the correlation table you
compute and explain why it makes sense.

    ANSWER:
    The pearson correlation coefficient measures the association between the changes in the values of two variables. If
    an increase in the one variable usually associates with an increase in the second variable, they'll have a more
    positive corr. coefficient (closer to 1). If a decrease in the one variable usually associates with a decrease in
    the second variable, they'll have a more negative corr. coefficient (closer to -1). If there is no relationship
    between the changes in the variables, we'll have a value of zero.

    In other words, the correlation coefficient measures how well the scatter plot of two variables resembles a linear
    function.

    For example, the correlation coefficient foor median-income and median-house-value is 0.7. This means, as the median
    income of a block people living a block increases, so does the median value of houses in that block.

2. Submit your solutions to tasks 1–2. Include the features you selected for task 1 and the synthetic features you
developed for task 2; include the final RMS errors but not the training output. Did you beat the Google-provided
baselines?

    ANSWER:
    Task 1: Develop a Good Feature Set
        What's the best performance you can get with just 2 or 3 features?

        ANSWER:
            Features chosen: median_income, latitude, rooms_person

            Hyper-parameter values:
                learning-rate = 0.001
                steps = 1000
                batch-size = 40

            RMSE: 120.32

     Task 2: Make Better Use of Latitude
        Try creating some synthetic features that do a better job with latitude.

        ANSWER:
            Feature I created:
                distance_from_hub = the minimum latitude distance from LA or San Francisco
            RMSE = 139.79; It beat the baseline by 0.21.