Exercise 2. Framing

[ALL ANSWERS WERE WRITTEN BY Samuel Zeleke]

1. We want the machine learned model to:
    ANSWER:
        I want the ML Model to collect a list new songs I may like from new songs released every week by
        analyzing their features (Artist, Genre, Waveform...).

2. Our ideal outcome is:
    ANSWER:
        I want to reduce the amount of time I spend looking for songs I like from "New Release" Playlists by at least
        50%.

3. Your Success Metrics
    Our success metrics are:
        ANSWER:
            The proportion of the songs I like from the list of songs it selects.

    Our key results for the success metrics are:
        ANSWER:
            I like 90% of the songs the model selects.

    Our ML Model is deemed a failure if:
        ANSWER:
            I like less than 80% of the songs it selects.

4. Your Output
    The output from our ML model will be:
        ANSWER:
            A track list.

    The output is defined as:
        ANSWER:
            A list of songs the model thinks I'd like from an input list of songs.

5. Using the Output
    The output from the ML model will be made:
        ANSWER:
            to predict the likelihood of me liking the song.

    The outcome will be used for:
        ANSWER:
            It will be used to create a Spotify playlist of new releases I like every week.

6. If we didn't use ML, we would:
    ANSWER:
        select songs based on genre, artist, language, metric of explicitness, and dissonance. Example, generate a list
        of songs whose:
            - genre is either EDM or Jazz, or
            - produced by artist named Jeff Goldblum, Girma Yifrashewa..., or
            - lyrics is in Amharic, or
            - have less than 5 explicit words, or
            - have harmonic waveform.

7a, b Problem formulated as an ML Problem; Cast your Problem as a Simpler Problem
    Our problems is best framed as:
    ANSWER
        A Binary classification which predicts whether I'd like the input song or not.

        For a track list, its should go through through the list, and evaluate and label (collect) the songs it thinks
        I'd like.

8. Design your Data for the Model
    Write the data you want the ML model to use to make predictions

    Title                    Artist          Genre   Language         Number of Streams      Explicitness            Waveform       Output
    Winter Wonderland        Jeff Goldblum   Jazz        -                1,652,289          Not Explicit              1.0           Like
    Feel Good                Malibou State   Lo-fi       -                8,586,060          Not Explicit              0.9           Like
    Rega                     Ahadu           EDM      Amharic              14,433            Not Explicit              0.01          Like
    Don't Slack              Anderson Paak.  Hip-Hop  English                N/A             Not Explicit              0.2          Dislike
    Used to Love             Martin Garrix   EDM      English             73,481,948           Explicit                0.7           Like
    ...                      ...             ...        ...                  ...                 ...                  ...            ...

9. Where the Data Comes From
Write down where each input comes from. Assess how much work it will be to develop a data pipeline to construct each
column for a row.
    ANSWER:
        The data is a subset of my Spotify listening history obtained using their API. For the output, Iif I listened to
        a song more than ten times, it would be considered as a song I liked. The waveform analysis can be done by
        another algorithm that "listens" to the song and rates its harmony 0-1 (1 is harmonious).

10. Easily Obtained Inputs
Among the inputs you listed in Exercise 8, pick 1-3 inputs that are easy to obtain, and that you believe would produce a
reasonable, initial outcome.

    ANSWER:
        I believe the artist name, genre, and the number of streams would be reasonable inputs that are easy to obtain.